Hi. My name is Molly,
and I'm the SDL here at Birchmount School.
And I'm going to be sharing about
how we're implementing
culturally responsive practices
through lessons, strategies,
culture days and our heritage share.
So what does it look like.
We front load vocabulary in our lessons
to make sure that everybody is clear on
what we're what we're talking about,
and especially for our MLS.
So we use lots of images.
We use lots of graphics.
And often what we'll do is
we will use their first language
so that they can leverage that
into learning new words
in their second language.
What that looks like in social studies
is we will give them geographical terms.
They can then research the meanings
of those terms in their first language,
and maybe see how they apply
in their home countries.
And then we apply those terms in English
to landforms that we have here in Canada.
So that's one specific strategy
that we use.
Right now we're working towards
having our heritage fair,
and we had really good success with it
last year.
The students
take an aspect of their own culture.
They research it and they prepare
a trifold poster board, which then
we display, and the rest of the school
comes to take a look at it.
Last year was a huge success,
and this year we're building on that idea
by, inviting members of our community
in to share their ideas.
So we're looking at having sports
demonstrations.
We're looking at having different
community groups
come in to share
about their own cultural practices,
and making it into
more of a community event.
Another thing that we do
here at the school really
well is we have ongoing culture days,
where students are encouraged to dress
in their traditional clothing,
and we'll have different events
that go on at the school
to celebrate different
all the different cultures in our school.
really concentrate
on doing some self-reflection so that
you are aware not only of your own biases,
but of your positionality
within your school's power structure
and within your community power structure.
I think doing
that makes you more of an ally and also
isn't.
It inspires you then to make space
for other people's contributions
and to see potential in different areas
where you may not have seen it
before or where where you may not have
been looking for it before.
So once you're aware
of your own lens
that you look at the world through,
you can then really encourage other people
to step up
and share their,
contributions and their culture.